# self-driving-robot
Self driving robot with sign detection project done with Zach Medailleu.


Using our created self-driving robot, we set out a task to take the images that were captured by the robot and have the robot detect shapes from the images. This allowed it to drive with caution as it recognizes stop signs in its path. This concept is used heavily in new car technology as companies want to make their products safer and marketable. An example of this application is found in security cameras that have object detection and/or AI. However, this is different from our product since ours is with the purpose of driving safely.

Our robot is successfully able to recognize certain shapes and stop when it notices one. It’s successfully able to detect a stop sign from among other colors and shapes in its field of view. Although it may be able to see many other shapes in its field of view, our code filters these out so the robot only reacts to the stop sign. We were able to thread our code correctly as well so that our robot both travels the track and looks out for signs. It can successfully loop around the track and stop at any stop signs it sees along the way. However, our robot doesn’t get stuck at a stop sign, and it only stops once for a couple seconds before it continues onward past the sign. Our result is a succession example of shape detection programmed into a mobile robot.

This process was not without its problems, however, and there were some weaknesses in the code originally. For one, while the tests on my desk proved for the robot to stop successfully, it stopped a lot less consistently on the track. This is most likely because the sign was receiving more light from the desk’s reflections. To fix this, I had to tinker with the range of detected color values so that the robot could detect the sign on both the desk and on the track. Additionally, the detection of the sign and the detection of the lane lines overlapped at one point and so the robot didn’t move the correct way. To fix this, I created two separate images for color filtering, blue_hsv and red_hsv, and two separate images to read the edges of each, edges and edges2. Our robot may still have trouble driving if its track has a lot of red colors, but for the purpose of this project, this isn’t a problem as the stop sign is the only red-colored object found on the track.
